---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3: Additional Study Tools for AWS Certifications"
date:   September 25, 2020
categories: jekyll updates
---

There's no denying that knowledge in cloud computing is a must for any aspiring Software Development Engineers and System Administrators wanting to land a job at their dream company. Certifications are a perfect way to demonstrate your mastery in this topic. Recently my Senior Design class was invited to participate in a cloud computing course provided by AWS. We were told by our instructor that if we were to complete this course we would be given a 50% discount on an AWS exam. 

I myself have already acquired an AWS Solutions Architect Associates certification so I'd like to provide additional resources that some might find useful.

Links:

[Udemy Practice Exams][Udemy-Practice]

[A Cloud Guru][Cloud-Guru]

Practice exams provided by Jon Bonso are an excellent way to give yourself exam questions that are closely similar to the ones in the actual exam. Not only do they provide a realistic timed environment, they also provide explanations for each answer so you can learn from mistakes. I personally found success using these practice exams so give it a shot!

A Cloud Guru is a learning platform dedicated to teaching users the fundamentals of cloud computing. They have excellent courses for each AWS certification complete with labs and practice exams. The drawback is that this is a subscription based platform so it will cost you a monthly/yearly fee but try them out on their free tier plan. 

My personal advice for anyone seeking AWS certifications is to spend time pacing yourself and memorizing all the core services AWS provides. Once you can find yourself being able to apply which service (S3, EC2, IAM, etc) is appropriate for a certain situation, you'll perform great on the exam. 

[Udemy-Practice]: https://www.udemy.com/user/jonjonbonso/
[Cloud-Guru]: https://acloudguru.com/aws-cloud-training