---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: Deploying Docker Containers on AWS"
date:   2020-09-11 21:27:24 -0700
categories: jekyll updates
---

Hello and welcome to my 2nd blog post! For this week's post I'll be covering a few Docker articles that I found very interesting and informative for any Docker enthusiasts.

As a side note, the articles I'll be sharing requires an intermediate understanding of Docker and AWS in order to understand some of the terminology being discussed. There are many articles/guides available on Google to help you get started! Please email me if you would like assistance setting it up on your workstation.

Let's begin! 

The first article [Deploying Docker Containers on AWS][Docker-AWS], provides a step-by-step guide to deploying Docker containers onto Amazon ECS, a container service provided by AWS. This guide covers the necessary configurations to help you quickly create a cluster and launching a generic web application. The first few steps are pretty basic networking configurations, but starts ramping up when you move onto Step 4. This involves creating a cluster, which is a dynamic system that manages a set of containers grouped together in pods. Think of it as a group of services/containers necessary to host the application. As you continue reading the article, you'll eventually create a sample application. Make sure to delete your instances once you're done! Have fun! 

The next article I'll be covering is [Processing Data with AWS Fargate and AWS S3][Fargate-S3], which I personally used during my internship at AWS. As I mentioned before, this article will require an intermediate understanding of AWS and containerization in order to fully grasp the subject matter. Don't worry though, after a week of learning the core concepts you'll be set! Anyways, this article provides detailed steps to create a basic machine learning pipeline that will be processing data sent to an S3 bucket. Eventually you'll come across steps that will require the creation of a Docker image which will then lead to you building a Dockerfile off the image. The guide contains visualizations of the workflow to help the readers understand the big picture. I can't stress how interesting and useful this article is so give it a chance and check it out!

Links to the articles

[Deploying Docker Containers on AWS][Docker-AWS]

[Processing Data with AWS Fargate and AWS S3][Fargate-S3]

Additional articles

[Getting Started with Amazon ECS and Fargate][ECS-Fargate]

[EC2 or Fargate][EC2-or-Fargate]

Thanks for reading! See you next week!

[Docker-AWS]: https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/deploy-docker-containers/
[ECS-Fargate]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/getting-started-fargate.html
[Fargate-S3]: https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-automatically-process-data-with-aws-fargate-when-upload-on-aws-s3-cbd2607c2880
[EC2-or-Fargate]: https://containersonaws.com/introduction/ec2-or-aws-fargate/ 

