---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   September 18, 2020
categories: jekyll updates
---

<h2>Blog 2: Jekyll Themes</h2>

Hello and thanks for checking out Blog 2. Nothing too interesting for this week's blog aside from some tips for adding a theme to your Jekyll blog. Most users will find themselves using Minima as their default theme but luckily jekyll supports the use of custom themes. You can either create your own or go through collections of themes created by other users.

Here are some links to Jekyll theme repositories


[jamstackthemes.dev][Jam-Stack]

[jekyllthemes.org][Jekyll-Themes]

[jekyllthemes.io][I-O]

<h3>How To Enable Your Theme </h3>

Once you've selected the custom theme you want to apply, you'll want to follow the steps provided in this [doc][Doc-1]. You'll have to setup a GitHub action dedicated to deploying your Jekyll site onto GitHub Pages. Make sure that you point to the right repository and source as the build commands will need access to your Gemfile. After you setup your workflow you'll want to push all your changes and watch the build commence in the actions tab located within the GitHub repository. When the build completes, your page will now have the custom theme applied.

**Note**: The reason you have to enable this build action is partly due to the fact that GitHub Pages runs in safemode and only allows a set amount of plugins to be displayed. Using third-party build sources allows you to override the limitation and gain better control of the build workflow.

Thanks for reading! 


[Jam-Stack]: https://jamstackthemes.dev/ssg/jekyll/
[Jekyll-Themes]: http://jekyllthemes.org/
[I-O]: https://jekyllthemes.io/
[Doc-1]: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/jekyll-deploy-action