---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6: CodeCommit vs. GitHub"
date:   October 16, 2020
categories: jekyll updates
---

This week I spent a bit of time participating in Hacktoberfest 2020 hosted by DigitalOcean. Although the pull requests I made were minimal, it was nice looking through the new changes they implemented this year such as the opportunity to opt-in your repo with the use of tags. I recommend you check it out [here][hack-tober] and participate to snag some cool swag!

Anyways as I was looking through repositories, I realized that the past summer I was using AWS CodeCommit instead of GitHub. During my internship I was required to use CodeCommit as means to store source code as the projects were entirely built in AWS (not to mention security measures and not storing company code in 3rd party public repositories). 

For this blog, I'd like to discuss my personal experiences with both CodeCommit and GitHub source control services.

**AWS CodeCommit**

I personally enjoyed using CodeCommit due to its in-built capabilities of creating seamless CI/CD pipelines with AWS CodeBuild and CodePipeline. It was simple to integrate a repository into a Cloudformation template while deploying builds at such high speeds. CodeCommit is entirely built on Git and utilizes private repositories so users don't have to worry about hardware provisioning and software updates. I would argue that although they have similar options available to GitHub, they still lack many triggers and code review modules.

**GitHub**

GitHub is a standard for many hardcore developers who need a free and accessible place to store their code. I love how you have access to 3rd party tools such as GitHub Actions which CodeCommit also lacks. Other aspects that I enjoy are code reviews and issue tracking so constant developer collaboration is at a high level. Only issue I have with GitHub is constant security scanning notifications but it's a small price to pay to maintain security on your repositories.


Additional Readings: 

[CompareCamp Article][compare-camp]

[Stackshare][stack-share]

[hack-tober]: https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/
[compare-camp]: https://comparecamp.com/aws-codecommit-vs-github-comparison/
[stack-share]: https://stackshare.io/stackups/aws-codecommit-vs-github#:~:text=You%20can%20use%20CodeCommit%20to,source%20and%20private%20development%20projects%22.