---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0 Spring 2021: Paramiko Script "
date:   February 19, 2021
categories: SSH Paramiko Python
---

SSH (Secure Shell) is a commonly used network protocol that securely passes communication between two computers. If a third party source were to intercept the transferred information, it would appear encrypted and unreadable. Automated server provisioning through the use of SSH is a common practice in an IT environment. I'll be covering a simple Python script designed to connect and run a command on remote machines in Python using Paramiko.

[Paramiko][paramiko-site] is a Python module that implements the SSH network protocol for secure connections to remote machines. It's a great tool for those who have a more pythonic approach.

<h3>Paramiko Script</h3>

1. Create a new file a name it `paramiko-script.py`. Then, start by importing the paramiko module.<br>
```
import sys
import paramiko
```
2. Just for the purpose of the demo, create variables with arguments that will be passed to the script.<br>
***Note*** If you would like to authenticate using an RSA key (Pem key), please do `key = path_to_key.pem`. <br>
```
user     = sys.argv[1]
hostname = sys.argv[2]
password = sys.argv[3]
command  = sys.argv[4]
```
3. Continue on with the script by writing code that establishes connection between the local and remote machines.
```
try:
    ssh_client = paramiko.SSHClient()
    ssh_client.set_missing_host_key_policy(paramiko.WarningPolicy())

    ssh_client.connect(user, hostname, password, pkey = key)

    stdin, stdout, stderr = client.exec_command(command)
    print stdout.read()
    ssh_client.close()
```
4. Add any additional classes or functions, then save the script. <br>
5. Run `chmod +x paramiko-script.py` to make it executable. Finally, run the script with the necessary arguments. <br>

Done! Paramiko opens the floor to a variety of commands that can be easily converted into the Python language.

[paramiko-site]: https://www.paramiko.org/